# Implement the Transparency & Consent Framework  |  Tag Platform  |  Google for Developers
*   This guide helps Consent Management Platform (CMP) developers implement the Transparency & Consent Framework (TCF) to send consent signals to Google tags, allowing websites to obtain and manage user consent for data processing.

*   Developers can enable TCF integration by setting the `enableAdvertiserConsentMode` field to `true` in their CMP's `TCData` objects or by setting `window['gtag_enable_tcf_support'] = true` on their websites.

*   Google tags and the Google Analytics for Firebase SDK only process TCF strings compliant with TCF policies and Google's EU User Consent Policy, using default settings if a CMP doesn't respond within 500 milliseconds or returns an error.

*   TCF Purposes are mapped to consent mode commands, impacting Google tag behavior when specific purposes (like storing information or personalizing ads) are denied by the user.


> This page is for consent management platform (CMP) developers who want to use the TCF framework to transmit consent signals to Google tags.

The IAB Transparency & Consent Framework (TCF) is an open-standard technical framework that enables websites, advertisers, and ad agencies to obtain, record, and update consumer consent for web pages.

To control Google Analytics cookies, [integrate with consent mode](https://developers.google.com/tag-platform/security/concepts/cmp).

Enable consent mode TCF integration
-----------------------------------

You can enable the consent mode TCF integration using either of the following methods.

### CMP API

Set the `enableAdvertiserConsentMode` field to `true` in `TCData` objects generated by your TCF consent management platform API implementation.

```
TCData.enableAdvertiserConsentMode = true

```


### Website

To enable TCF support, set the property to `true` on each website that should support TCF, even on pages that are loaded through an `iframe`.

```
window['gtag_enable_tcf_support'] = true

```


### Apps

TCF integrations may be automatically enabled by your CMP. You can disable the integration by updating your `AndroidManifest.xml` (Android) or `info.plist` (iOS) file.

For Android:

```
<metadata android:name="google_analytics_tcf_data_enabled" android:value="false" />

```


For iOS:

```
<key>GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_TCF_DATA_ENABLED</key> <false/>

```


TCF integration behavior
------------------------

The Google tag and the Google Analytics for Firebase SDK only accept TCF strings that are correctly implemented according to the TCF policies and technical specifications, and adhere to Google's EU User Consent Policy.

For web tag integrations, if the CMP doesn't respond within 500 milliseconds or you see "error", "stub", or "loading" status, the tag will proceed with default consent settings.

Learn how to [troubleshoot TCF implementations](https://support.google.com/admanager/answer/9999955).

When enabled, the consent mode TCF integration maps from TCF Purposes to consent mode commands as follows.



* Purpose: 1
    * Description: Store and/or access information on a device.
    * Google tag behavior when Purpose is denied: ad_storage = denied or ad_user_data = denied
* Purpose: 3
    * Description: Create a personalised ads profile
    * Google tag behavior when Purpose is denied: ad_personalization = denied
* Purpose: 4
    * Description: Select personalized ads
    * Google tag behavior when Purpose is denied:         ad_personalization = denied
* Purpose: 7
    * Description: Measure ad performance
    * Google tag behavior when Purpose is denied: ad_user_data = denied        Disables the Google signals  feature in Google Analytics (for web tags only).
* Purpose: 9
    * Description: Apply market research to generate audience insights
    * Google tag behavior when Purpose is denied: Disables the Google signals  feature in Google Analytics (for web tags only).
* Purpose: 10
    * Description: Develop and improve products
    * Google tag behavior when Purpose is denied: Disables the Google signals  feature in Google Analytics (for web tags only).


Next steps
----------

If you plan to provide your customers with a tag they can use in Google Tag Manager, [create a tag template](https://developers.google.com/tag-platform/tag-manager/templates) for your banner.

*   [IAB Europe Transparency & Consent Framework Policies](https://iabeurope.eu/iab-europe-transparency-consent-framework-policies/)
*   [Troubleshooting TCF implementation](https://support.google.com/admanager/answer/9999955)